# Contemporary Issues In Data

## The importance of protecting the privacy of health data 
I will summarize and discuss these two New York Times Opinion articles about the consequences of sharing personal health data. I also compare the contrasting views of the authors and give my own thoughts.

## Article 1
### [For a Longer, Healthier Life, Share Your Data](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/22/opinion/health-care-privacy-hipaa.html?searchResultPosition=20) 

In this NYT opinion article from 2019, Luke Miner speaks about how after a brief attempt to bring data science into health care, he had to leave the project due to a lack of data, even including anonymized data. Miner then explains how this opened his eyes to how AI and access to health data could improve medicine in a myriad of different ways including cancer and genetic disease research. Miner then explains the difficulties with obtaining this type of data, for example, different logistical issues but mainly speaking about the limitations imposed by HIPAA privacy rules. Here, I feel that Miner makes a valid point about how sharing data could potentially save and/or improve the lives of many people. The end of the article gives some examples of solutions that Miner thinks could improve data access in this sector. Those include HIPAA reforms, increasing patient control, and introducing new incentives and standards for data sharing.

Though Miner mentions that he normally is extremely cautious of companies having access to his data as opposed to his view on sharing his health data, I didn't feel that he addressed potential privacy concerns seriously. He also makes a comment that I felt was overly dismissive of these concerns by saying "unlike the far more substantial privacy sacrifices we’ve already made in so many other aspects of our lives, at least we’ll have something to show for our efforts". The issue of protecting your personal interest in privacy against potentially saving the lives of millions would have been an interesting philosophical debate to include. I also didn't feel that there were many obvious immediate actionable points to work towards this, potentially demonstrating how hard it is to imagine this as a likely event in our near future. 

## Article 2
### [Protecting Employees’ Health Data](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/27/opinion/sunday/protecting-employees-health-data.html?searchResultPosition=24)

Written by the Editorial Board, this 2016 opinion article underlines some of the dangers of how businesses are working with employers to collect and analyze employees' health data. Possible uses for this data collection include personalizing health insurance plans or showing patterns of unhealthy behavior or discrimination. This article also mentions how HIPAA, which the previous article mentioned as a tough barrier to data sharing, actually applies primarily to healthcare providers and leaves many doors open for other companies. In contrast to the last article, this one actually calls for stronger restrictions against health data collection, mentioning how a group of legal scholars is pushing for federal legislation that would stop companies from employing based on information gleaned through health data services and ensure employees’ right to access and delete the collected information.

Compared to the first article, I felt that this article considers more of the cons of data sharing, however, that approach also seems more realistic to me. The authors provided real life examples of how this type of data collection has impacted people negatively whereas the previous article was more theoretical. However, when reading this article, I feel it's also important to consider that it was written before the first and therefore these authors may not have had the same information or the field of data science may not have been as advanced at that point. My personal opinion after reading both articles is that it would be beneficial to give the option to share health data to well-informed people that are aware of the negative impacts it may have or how it might still be linked to them. 